Plain about the low level of support, even in these
restricted times, there's vastly more money
available than the old bailing wire and sealing
wax days at Lowell. Yeah. I mean, when I went to
Lowell, I mean, typical salary levels, I don't
remember what I was paid, but it's less than we pay a
graduate student assistant coming in now. Yeah.
who's supposedly spending most of his time just
studying. So yeah, and those of us who've held
positions for a long time, I've been 30 years now,
or going on 30 years at University of Arizona, our
salaries have fallen behind, so it's called the
compression effect, considerably behind new
appointees. It's only because, well, I've been
in, I mean, my house is paid for, so I don't have to
pay a big mortgage. And so, in a sense, I feel that I
can afford to draw less salary. But
I think there's too much focus and too much
attention on short-term science, new people
coming in. They have to move very rapidly. You've
got to publish results very quickly, pick up, I
think, many, many superficial things. In-depth
science has suffered, and I don't think there's a
proper balance of support for deeper studies,
more controversial studies.
So, yeah, I don't have a lot of sympathy for the
complaints of many of the younger scientists. I
mean, I don't think...
I don't think that's the
central problem that we face in astronomy. I think
we're overpopulated in astronomy, and I think
we're driven by wanting to produce results
quickly. I'm an old-fashioned astronomer who
believed that the way Mount Wilson and places like
that worked years ago, where you could study a
problem, think about it, and publish a definitive
analysis. I mean, it worked. kind of work that
Merrill did, and Joy, and so on. Those, I think,
that's the way I still think there's room for that
kind of support in astronomy. And we see very
little of it. I want to ask you one general, one
specific question. The specific one is, what's
the reaction of people that you meet when they find
out you're an astronomer? good, bad, and
different surprises? I think the general public
is well attuned to astronomy, and I don't think
we've ever had a problem selling astronomy
fundamentally. Gee, there's a lot of
misunderstanding of what astronomy is, but I
think there's an automatic, fairly positive
reaction to astronomy. Gee, yeah, I mean, it's
telling us what's out there, and there's a natural
interest in that. I don't think there's any
problem at that level. with getting an initial
positive reaction to astronomy. It's at the next
level when you start asking for money or
explaining how expensive it is to run this
business that people get a little puzzled. And,
well, even then, well, just if you give us the
proper information, the proper justification,
maybe we're not fundamentally objecting to it. I
think we have more problem internally in
astronomy in the way we've decided to allocate our
resources. And I can be perfectly honest in making
one of the, a strong comparison that I'm sure has
been made many times between the way, say, NRAO and
NOAO are run. NRAO is a real service institution
that really helps astronomers with individual
ideas. Doesn't get any complaints either. Right.
It's a great institution. And the controversy
that revolves around NOAO, I'm not an authority on
that, but it's an entirely different situation.
But you live in Tucson, right? Yeah. That's
the way things are funded now. I mean, if you want to
do a research program or do an observing program or
apply for a grant, you have got to say exactly what
you're going to do and exactly what you're going to
find. In the kind of work that I do, you can't do
that. I mean, we're investigating a phenomenon
that we don't understand. And historically,
that's where the major advances in science have
come. I think if you look at the history of science,
and I'm no authority on history of science like you
are, Ron, but it's not out of these big
institutions necessarily that the real advances
come, because the proposals are reviewed in such
microscopic detail that that there really isn't
any question left. It's just refining the next
significant figure or something like that. It's
only the tenured professors with some far-out
idea or people that are willing to take a big risk
that can investigate the unknown and take on an
observing program or do an observing program
where they don't know what they're going to find.
Because you can't write that kind of proposal.
Nobody's going to fund it. Nobody's going to
support it. So Galileo wouldn't stand a chance
today. No. I mean, to build a telescope to, I mean,
everybody knew what you were going to see when you
looked at Jupiter or something. It wasn't going to
have moon circling around it. There was nothing
unknown out there. So you can't write that kind of
proposal. And I think that's exactly the kind of
proposal that we need. The same is true for
publication. When you send a paper in to the
Astrophysical Journal or to a main journal, I've
had plenty of experience with this, where you try
to develop a new idea or suggest a new
interpretation. If it's inconsistent with what
is, quote, presently known or presently being
modeled, you're going to meet immense
resistance. And to introduce a new or a different
idea is very, very difficult. You can't do it. I
can't work with graduate students or people that
future depend upon their being able to get a job
that having connection with TIFT is not wise. I can
do it because I've got tenure, because I've got
security, and because my salary is big enough that
my expenses aren't that big, I can afford to go to
the AAS meeting and have my own home computer and a
few computer programs so I can generate poster
papers, I can write papers. I may even end up having
to pick up some of my publication charges. There
aren't many people in a position to do that.
there's something wrong with the way science is
being supported and funded. I don't think we need a
lot of money for this, but I think there ought to be
means of handling new ideas. We ought to somehow
try to create a means of supporting new ideas based
upon just the experience with the people. I mean,
people know that I do good observational work.
There ought to be a means of supporting these kinds
of things. I'm not speaking specifically for
myself, but I know there are a lot of people out
there. I assume this criticism applies to NSF and
NASA together in that they are both unwilling to
take any chances whatsoever. Right. I mean,
Jocelyn Gill's office, for example, and this was
an aspect of the older NASA, was willing to take
this kind of a risk in the Lunar Programs Lab and
Marshall Space Flight Center. They said, yeah. I
mean, sure, they were vested interest in this. But
on the other hand, there were no strings attached
to the support. They say, go out and build some good
programs that we can fly. Sure, they were
interested. They wanted programs developed. But
they gave the support to people who were motivated
to try something new. We don't see much of that now.
and this collecting of everybody into teams to do a
specific job, there's no flexibility. There's no
ability of the scientists to develop a completely
new idea. We've seen these plateaus in the history
of science frequently. Everything is known, and
all we've got to do is work out the next details. And
we aren't any closer to the final answers than we
were in the 18th century. A lot of people think we
are.